Add RPC chapter (#30)
tikv/deep-dive-tikv: src/rpc/http2.md

# HTTP/2

> HTTP/2 evolved out of Google's experimental SPDY protocol as a successor to HTTP/1.1. Since it maintains high-level compatability with HTTP/1.1 let's first take a look at HTTP/1.x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP/2 evolved out of Google's experimental SPDY protocol as a successor to HTTP/1.1. Since it maintains high-level compatibility with HTTP/1.1, let's first take a look at HTTP/1.x.
```

> HTTP/2 evolved out of Google's experimental SPDY protocol as a successor to HTTP/1.1. Since it maintains high-level compatability with HTTP/1.1 let's first take a look at HTTP/1.x.

Reviewer 2: I would start with a high-level summary of what HTTP 2 is and how it works, rather than starting with the history and then background

## HTTP/1.x

HTTP/1.0 was developed at CERN in 1989. [IETF RFC 1945](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1945) in 1996 was the first officially recognized HTTP/1.0 version. Just a few years later, HTTP/1.1 was specified in [IETF RFC 2068](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2068). The standard was improved in [IETF 2616](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616) in 1999.

Both of these specifications eventually were obseleted in 2007 in the following RFCs:

* [RFC 7230, HTTP/1.1: Message Syntax and Routing](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230)
* [RFC 7231, HTTP/1.1: Semantics and Content](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231)
* [RFC 7232, HTTP/1.1: Conditional Requests](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7232)
* [RFC 7233, HTTP/1.1: Range Requests](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7233)
* [RFC 7234, HTTP/1.1: Caching](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7234)
* [RFC 7235, HTTP/1.1: Authentication](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7235)

Thankfully it's not necessary to become familiar with every detail of these RFCs. HTTP/1.0 is a request-reponse protocol, for now, we'll just focus on this.

### The Request

>  Once a node is connected to another node via TCP/IP it can make a request by sending ASCII text like so (the empty newline at the bottom is required!):

Reviewer: To avoid ambiguity (when instead of once). Also, we can add _the empty newline at the bottom is required!_ as a comment in the code lines below. 
```suggestion
When a node is connected to another node via TCP/IP, it can make a request by sending ASCII text as below (the empty newline at the bottom is required!):
```

```HTTP
POST / HTTP/1.1
Host: tikv.org

> 

Reviewer: <!--the empty line here is required-->

> 

Reviewer 2: Worth noting that linebreaks should be `\r\n` not just `\n`

> { data: "Test" }

Reviewer 2: Given that this is meant to be a very simple example and you've described the request as ASCII above, it might be better to send plain text rather than JSON

```

> Common headers are things like `Authorization` (for access control), and `Cache-Control` (for caching).

Reviewer 2: You should introduce the concept of headers vs body before the example.

### The Response

The recipient of a message responds in a similar format:

```HTTP
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close

{ data: "bar" }
```

## HTTP/2

> The major differences in HTTP/2 lie not in topics like methods, status codes, or URIs, but in data frames and transportation.

Reviewer 2: Need to explain what data frames and transportation are to improve this summary

It builds on HTTP/1.1 by adding features like:

* Server Push, allowing the server to respond with more data than requested.
* Multiplexing, to avoid 'head-of-line' blocking problem in HTTP/1.1
* Pipelining, reducing network wait times.
* Compression of headers, to reduce overall network costs.

> Compared to HTTP/1.1, HTTP/2.0 offers applications like TiKV many opportunities for performance gains.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure how much benefit this page adds - you don't really need to know about HTTP/2 to use gRPC and I think you'd have to go into a lot more detail to make this page useful as an HTTP/2 resource. Maybe better to either remove entirely or cut it down to a paragraph overview on HTTP and HTTP/2

* [RFC 7232, HTTP/1.1: Conditional Requests](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7232)
* [RFC 7233, HTTP/1.1: Range Requests](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7233)
* [RFC 7234, HTTP/1.1: Caching](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7234)
* [RFC 7235, HTTP/1.1: Authentication](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7235)

Thankfully it's not necessary to become familiar with every detail of these
RFCs. HTTP/1.0 is a request-reponse protocol, for now, we'll just focus on this.

### The Request

When a node is connected to another node via TCP/IP, it can make a request by
sending ASCII text like as below (the empty newline is required!):

```HTTP
POST / HTTP/1.1
Host: tikv.org

{ data: "Test" }
```

Common headers are things like `Authorization` (for access control), and
`Cache-Control` (for caching).

### The Response

The recipient of a message responds in a similar format:

```HTTP
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
Connection: close

{ data: "bar" }
```

## HTTP/2

The major differences in HTTP/2 lie not in topics like methods, status codes, or
URIs, but in data frames and transportation.

It builds on HTTP/1.1 by adding features like:

> * Server Push, allowing the server to respond with more data than requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Server Push, to allow the server to respond with more data than requested.
```

* Multiplexing, to avoid 'head-of-line' blocking problem in HTTP/1.1

> * Pipelining, reducing network wait times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Pipelining, to reduce network wait times.
```
